# Lab 04 - SOP/POS and KMaps

In this lab, you’ve learned how to apply KMaps, Sum Of Products and Products of
sums to simplify digital logic equations. Then, you’ve proven out that they work
using an implemented design on your Basys3 boards.

## Rubric

| Item | Description | Value |
| ---- | ----------- | ----- |
| Summary Answers | Your writings about what you learned in this lab. | 25% |
| Question 1 | Your answers to the question | 25% |
| Question 2 | Your answers to the question | 25% |
| Question 3 | Your answers to the question | 25% |

## Lab Summary

In this lab, we learned the outputs of "naive" and both K-maps are the same, and we proved that in our simulation/board. We learned (again) how to properly set up vivado with the devices and setting the simulation sources. We also learned how to view the schematic and see a visual representation of what we programmed, along with viewing a truth table generated by Vivado. 

## Lab Questions

### Why are the groups of 1’s (or 0’s) that we select in the KMap able to go across edges?

The groups of 1's or 0's are able to go across the edges because groups are made across cells where only one value changes (A or B, for example). Across edges, still only one variable changes. It helps to think of the K-map as a cylinder or toroid, where it keeps wrapping around.

### Why are the names Sum of Products and Products of Sums?

They are named that because of how Boolean variables are able to be combined using logic gates.
SOP are AND together then OR while POS is OR then AND. It is named SOP because the final expression is an OR (sum) of AND terms (product) and POS because the final expression is an AND (product) of OR terms (sum. 

### Open the test.v file – how are we able to check that the signals match using XOR?
Using XOR, we can check if the signals match because if they are both zero or both one (matching), the output will be zero. So, if the output is anything but zero, the signals must be mismatched.
